[Music]
[Applause]
welcome to today's episode episode
number eight I I wanted to do this
episode a long time ago we've had this
footage the footage that we're going to
share today was taken in some of was in
January when we went to San Diego but
then November was when we went to uh
Palms um so we wanted to do this a long
time ago just we were waiting for
someone to come down we had all this
other stuff going on life
happened schule happened so yeah it's
all yeah but I I was wondering to myself
I was like okay well why is why is the
military even important to me like you
know want to do this about our life um
and I was never in the military uh came
close didn't do it but I've always uh
I've had an interest when I started
doing unlock in a cage um um I spoke
with a lot of different Fighters um guys
that were doing MMA and also some guys
that were just doing Jiu-Jitsu and they
would tell me just like how much it
helped um Shane crin from uh San Diego
we interviewed him at 10th planet um
he'll talk a little bit about that and
what is done for him but it was when I
met you uh we started training together
doing the yoga and then I did your
interview and you you told me a little
bit about uh your situation and some of
the stuff that you go through but then
after hearing your story and just
putting myself in your shoes um and
these other Fighters I was like man um I
I get it I but seeing how much uh
Jiu-Jitsu and yoga helps you um
understanding how the martial arts helps
anybody like it's going to improve your
life if you if you're like or or a sport
you know you could get from other things
but martial arts isn't going to make
your life worse unless you go to a
terrible place and terrible instructor
all that kind of stuff so I understand
that and I understand I was like oh of
course it's great for our military and
and we would want this for we want I
want this for anyone I want this for my
kids I want it for everyone else but
especially you would think they would
want it for the servicemen right you
know like we talked about earlier we
went down to 29 Palms back in November
now yeah and uh back then they were
almost losing the gym right you know a
lot of the higher ranked guys didn't
believe that uh Combat Sports on base
were the best idea so they almost lost
the whole gym they actually did lose it
for a while right after our visit uh
yeah it was gone I remember but they got
it back and so uh yeah we'll you know
that's just another big topic I want to
touch on like of course everyone needs
martial arts but our
servicemen probably the most or you know
I might be being uh subjective a bit but
um if we can just help them you know
keep the funding and just make people
aware that these guys want to train too
and these guys want to want to work out
and and just train a martial art and
just because they're quote unquote
Marines or killers they can't do it that
doesn't make any sense so yeah yeah and
so and I think more than like yes this I
want to I want to show people that yeah
these kinds of things should be funded
and if and if the government's not going
to fund it then you can help sponsor it
or whatever but it's just it's a good
idea to have these on basis for for sure
100% but then also for people to realize
yeah you know what that might be
something good for me to do like even if
you know I'm no longer active duty but I
I I get what these guys are saying um
you know one of the earlier episodes I
think I don't know if it was five or six
but we we went to San Diego one of the
reasons we went down was because I
wanted you to meet uh Shane crutching I
was hoping you were going to be able to
do the yoga for first we didn't get that
chance um but we did catch up with them
when we got to ATT Planet uh yeah San
Diego uh you know I was I was glad I was
glad that we at least got the chance to
see him uh he was there with his
daughter uh he took the time to talk and
uh yeah so yeah so here is uh Shane you
know I got into fighting as I said in my
last interview just by pure accident
pure uh you know just coincidence and I
got into it I got a lucky break ended up
uh coming to California you know just on
my own dime and I fell on the right
people at the time and for the last 10
years I've I've followed those people
around and it's always been a positive
influence it's saved me uh from the drug
and alcohol abuse severe drug and
alcohol abuse well I was homeless I was
still training and my partners knew it
but I was too prideful to ask for any
assistance or help in any way they
actually came out and gave me an Avenue
to uh get back on my feet in a positive
manner so I mean fighting fighting in
general has uh you know I I attribute
fighting and Jiu-Jitsu saving my life
and and maybe even let let them know how
heavy were you you lost an incredible
amount of weight too right I mean yeah
originally after I was hurt in the
Marine Corps in 2004 I gloomed up to
about 260 262 lbs was the heaviest that
I was ever on a scale at um I ended up
losing over 100 lb um I've now
consecutively fought in five different
weight classes I fought in World Series
of fighting um most recently and that
was at 145 lb so you know awes that's a
whole that's a human being that I've
lost you know I I the reason why I
gained so much weight in the first place
was uh severe depression
feeling like I had nowhere to go nowhere
to be uh nobody cared about me um you
know it wasn't a healthy way I got up to
262 but uh you know just zero exercise I
knew I knew I got too heavy the day I
tried to walk up a a flight of stairs
and I was out of breath um coming from
being a childhood wrestler um middle
school high school wrestler and then
going to the Marine Corps and being a
prideful Purple Heart recipient all of a
sudden here I am and I can't even walk
up a flight of stairs something's wrong
something's got to change this would do
for other um for active duty guys so
guys that are in service right now what
do you think having access to grappling
and a fight club would do would would do
you think it would be a good thing for
them I think you know just having access
to grappling or MMA or just some sort of
physical activity number one yes you
have your Brotherhood in the military uh
whether whatever branch of service
you're in there's always that
Brotherhood or the camaraderie whether
you're male or female but once you get
on into an MMA team or a Jiu-Jitsu team
and you really find that home and you
can call it a family it's a it's even
more meaning than you've ever felt in
the military uh you know in the military
I loved my brothers I still do to this
day I I never will stop that but I've
never felt more at home than every time
I can walk in my gym everybody not
everybody knows my name but the people
that do I it's it's always open arms
anything I need I'm there uh they're
there for me and as as I am for
them I me and you were talking about
earlier how we think some guys how it
might be easier for some guys to get out
and transition to the civilian life
versus other guys who may It's probably
hard for and um you know we said that
for me if I didn't have yoga or if I
didn't have Jiu-Jitsu like wow I don't
know what I would do um for him it's
fighting and it's following all his
buddies and uh I think that's important
for whether it's fighting or Jiu-Jitsu
or golf or tennis if you think you have
any any problems if you got any issues
going on just follow something you like
to do positive you know it be painting
you know you could be this big bad
Marine but if you like to paint just
paint man you know following something
positive so and and those people I mean
positive people we just had this talk
last night about uh about positive
people in your life dude I I don't
something's negative I just won't hang
out with them I don't want to be like
there not in my life yeah he said
following his positive influences
whether it was people or or things that
he likes to do I think that's important
in the healing process as far as Marines
Army me any any type of stressful
situation anything no I think uh there's
a lot of guys like Shane and I'm I met
and I have a lot of friends like Shane
and as far as the the depression and
ballooning up and gaining weight I mean
I've been there I I I did it myself I
got really heavy and then came down and
but I think what we can take is just
look where he's at now fighting at 145
when he weighed 262 on a scale I mean if
you can't learn something from that dude
and that you know being going through
what he's gone through as far as uh
getting a Purple Heart being wounded in
combat you know most likely seeing some
of his buddies yeah yeah he has he has
all their names t on the so there you go
so there you go so to go through that
whole Gauntlet of life's of life in one
life you know and he's only 30 how old
is um I got to check it I'm not sure how
old he is he can't be older than 35 I'm
not going to call yeah he went in super
early like he was he wanted to go I mean
I know how it is being team in a foreign
country and having to perform or or you
know do your job but this guy's awesome
I mean we could just learn a lot from
him like I said the whole weight thing
and him still fighting and pursuing his
positive influences I I took that that H
yeah because we we we're not going to
share it on this there'll be another
episode where he goes a little bit
deeper into uh you know some of his
things that he's had to deal with I was
sure if yeah I man I I think that's a
whole another episode I mean like I want
to talk with you about it because until
you until you hear those stories you
look at guys um like oh yeah he went to
war but it was a job and like there's
like I think the general public I
there's definitely a disconnect there
like you can't because you can't know
and so until you tell like it wasn't
until you told me the stories like of
what you experien and different things
and even even things that you think were
little I was like no I see how that's
going to cause some kind of stress um
you know and and and I don't want anyone
thinking that we're saying anyone that
goes into uh military as PTSD or
anything like that I'm just saying say
just
military it's a form like it's stress
like whatever that's a that's a
stressful being a cop is stressful like
there's so many different jobs that are
that have their level of stress that has
an extremely high one yeah let's say
let's say that um and so that's why of
course uh Jiu-Jitsu and MMA and you know
whatever martial art like yeah it's
going to it's going to help you with the
stress
um so but yeah that will be we're going
to go deeper into that in another
episode so uh but it was cool that you
took me down there we went to 29 Palms
in uh November November and um yeah I
wasn't sure what to expect I hadn't been
on base before so there was you know we
went at night so I wasn't able to see as
much but just seeing just how massive it
is like that was that was crazy and it's
funny that cuz you only saw people that
know 29 Palms you only saw like like the
surface like the little SC at the Top If
You Go go back into the mount like
that's where you really get all the
training done and all that so um and it
was cool for me to go back you know I
was stationed there for a while um it's
grown a little bit the actual gym used
to be a a classroom so that was cool for
me pretty nostalgic and uh getting back
in there and I once again if when I was
stationed there all I was doing was
lifting weights playing basketball
luckily I wasn't too much I wasn't
drinking a lot blah blah blah but I had
a buddy that passed away at the Motel 6
down there cuz over the weekend he just
drank himself to death wow um cuz he
couldn't go home you know didn't have a
lot of money lived out of state didn't
have family you know so um if me or him
you know if me and him could have went
to the gym and I could have just was was
was it there or was it not no that gym
wasn't there and this guy you know one
of my buddies you know that buddy he
wasn't a athlete he wasn't a a
basketball player but a lot of Jiu-Jitsu
guys aren't either at first and you
start Jiu-Jitsu and then you you find it
so I think of him a lot you know maybe
if this gym was there back then like me
and would have been in there rolling
around and instead of him out drinking
and me going home instead of like
staying there with my buddy so who knows
who knows man uh you took me down there
and that was was I wasn't sure how
people would react cuz had you done yoga
for them before Oh So yeah so that was
my first time ever going on a Marine
Corps base and doing yoga which was my
which was my [__] dream like that was
my yeah that was big for me and it was
great because they were super receptive
and yeah now why um why is that your why
was that your dream because I I I think
I think I might have pushed you to
hurrying up and doing more stuff with
the Marines because it seemed like
that's something that you want to give
them because you know what it's given
you um but why why did you want to go
and show them that what do you think
yoga could give somebody oh well
man well in general you hear about all
the positive that yoga brings but uh you
know just to kind of narrow it down for
me going back on base and teaching yoga
Marine Corps bases are it's hard hard
hard kill kill kill nothing soft nothing
soft like even the spiders on you know
29er they'll you know Brown cluse
they'll mess you up so everything's hard
hard hard kill kill kill and I just
thought how cool would it be if I come
from this hard hard hard kill kill kill
place and now I come back with this
beautiful locks flowing I'm trying to
teach something positive and they're
receptive you know and I just thought
that was huge to bring some kind of like
just bring some bit of softness I guess
back to
base and show guys that they can harness
all that go go go kill kill kill just
just in here just go in you know and not
get rid of it like I think that would be
a concern of I think that be a concern
of like I don't want to I don't want to
lose that I don't want to be all come
all peaceful and put down my weapon uh
so talk about what else you get that's
very true that's a a point that uh you
know I was trying to stay away from just
cuz I wasn't sure how a lot of the yoga
community would take it but when I'm
going in there and doing yoga for these
marines um what I really get down to it
it's not uh unicorns or or or or go to
your peaceful place it's
rather it's more so rather you know how
to breathe between when you're pulling
that trigger or once you're
done you know with something that you
have to do how do you bring yourself
back how do you continue to you know how
are you are you listening to me as I'm
telling you to put your right hand down
as I'm walking you through what might
have been a a stressful situation for
you so guys come to the class and uh
we're all we're all vets so we go deep
it's like okay after we pulled the
trigger now what and this whole time I'm
talking to them they're doing yoga poses
and flows so they're thinking about the
the traumatic event but yet they're
still going through yoga flows and
movements Warrior poses up dogs down
dogs and with all the breathing I think
that it takes us to that Panic stage
where a psychiatrist might want to try
to break walls down or something like
that it takes us there and then just
allows you to [__] breathe through it
breathe through it you you keep
listening to my my cues and commands at
the same time you're thinking about what
happened when you were pulling that dude
out of that Humvee or when you saw your
buddy get dropped what you know go back
and I think we talked about this we hit
this but kind of rewire rewire our brain
to kind of instead of go to a stressful
place instead realize that our mind's
taking us there and kind of breathe
breathe through it and come back if that
makes any sense oh no that totally
rambling no no I think that makes I get
it that's why I I try to do that all the
time um yeah so CU that was because that
was my thing like well how are you going
to convince people that yoga would be
good for guys that are acting Duty that
are about to go you know go fight but no
I mean you lower that stress cuz and
they talk about too about like it's
always there you know so if you find a
way and then also yeah improving them as
but it make them better soldiers and
luckily yeah luckily servicemen are very
receptive of their own like they know I
was there I got a a nice warm welcome
actually uh the guy that started or not
started but helped start the whole uh
gym uh staff sergeant fueno was actually
one of my staff sergeants when I was in
active duty oh really and uh so it was
pretty cool he actually came back and
they surprised me he was there and I
hugged him it it was it was just a cool
thing to see that I knew this guy and
now he's starting this and now I'm
coming back to help these guys so um
forgot oh my point was that yeah
servicemen are really receptive of their
own and for them to just listen to me
and close their eyes and let me take
them there and then I think it's just
we're all programmed to work hard and if
you know you're going to if you respect
someone you're going to follow then
they're willing to do whatever so yeah I
believe we have some footage do you have
that I do so we we'll throw some footage
had some but I born yeah no so who who
wants to watch a bunch of Marines do
this it looks it looks pretty funny too
cuz in the middle of of the of the mat
there's a knife and a and a rifle oh
when you guys were all airplane over to
each other but I was like but that was
cool yeah to for them to give you that
that's not easy thing I dude I I was
doing yoga in my basement like just door
closes no one watch it no way so for
these guys to do it in front of their
peers you know so that was cool and I I
think they dug it cuz then um you guys
went straight into uh you ran through
some drills some
rolling you know and I didn't do it I
kind of wanted to um but I wanted to get
interviews in so it was cool because one
of the guys the first guy we talked to
um I think he was taking off like he was
about to be out right uh Tommy Roland
25-year-old um I think he he's out
definitely out cuz I I was there he
wasn't there yeah um but but he was
fighting uh amateur so he already had
some amateur fights um but and just from
the very first moment I sat down with
him I was like man you could just tell
like just such a calm demeanor uh and
and it was cool talking with him so I
want to run his clip uh for you guys so
here a little bit about this
marine and what martial arts has done
for him
yeah it was when I first started out
with the martial arts it was all about
values you know what I mean like we
learned how you know how to fight in
self-defense and that was the big thing
about the style but it was a lot about
values you know I mean humility and you
know being a you want to be a good man a
good person first and then the martial
arts would would fall in the place
afterwards and so more what explain to
me is it starts up as a hobby and then
becomes a habit and then becomes a
lifestyle so you incorporate those
values and they gradually become more
and more part of your life as time goes
on and that was the thing that was
really IMM to me that's made the biggest
difference get involved in this business
is not going to be for money uh just
because you know as you get old you know
you realize you want to test yourself
you know I mean I'm in the Marines I'm
Marines for a reason you know I
mean people have something to prove you
know I do feel it somewhere you know and
not to anyone specifically just to
myself you know and
um it's just for the love you know I
mean I like seeing my best self and uh I
I have realized over time that if I'm
focused on fighting I'm focused on my
nutrition you know what I mean
everything in my life starts to fall
into place you know you know things
start coming together because
more Focus driven more goal oriented so
that's the reason why I like um
competing in amateur MMA it's not
necessarily for you know fame or money
it's just I I really like what it does
for me and my life in general for me as
a person when I look in that mirror I'm
like this is what I should be doing this
is this is what I love this is who I am
a great Outlet you I'm pretty mellow and
calm person and patient you know at work
you know just cuz I get it out here you
I mean there's there's not much left
after you know hard practice especially
when you're preparing for a fight I mean
you want to eat you want to go to sleep
there's not really much fooling around
you know I mean you cut back on the
drink and the smoke and all the
distractions and you really focus on
positive things building yourself in
your life and for me you know that's a
really great thing cuz I remember when
this uh this gym was in a this fight
club was in a hanger you know a little
quanset Hut type deal it was cold as
colder than cold in the winter time and
hotter than hot in the summertime you
know as a little mat that was always
covered in sand you to sweep off the
sand because the wind you know
sandstorms blowed up you know it was a
very humbling experience a very humbling
Journey you know the first couple years
I was here you know we just you just
said very talented people walking coming
in and out this you know every couple
years or so you know because of the
Marine Corps but very talented people
you know was with no FRS it was all
about the work it was all about you know
here do business here train here get
better and that was a big thing for me
especially when I first started training
here was just the level of dedication
you know the lack of amenities but the
definit level of dedication that people
experience through here and opportunity
to grow and the outlet you know and I
recommend that to everyone I mean
whether you're casual person want to
could do this two time two times a week
whether you feel like you want to train
or compete over and over again you know
I mean or professionally amateur level I
think it's just a great Outlet I think
everyone should be involved in
um just this gyms progressed so much and
uh you know head coach Maro has just
been so about the fighters and about
this club and it's really one of his
passions and I'm very proud of me I've
been with this club for about 3 and A2
years something like that been been for
a minute and just for me opportunity to
grow as a person as a martial arts as a
fighter I mean it's really been great if
you want to get serious then this is a
great place to do it and if you just
want to be casual that's fine that's up
to you too but really this club has been
such a big part of my life and I'm
grateful for it so grateful for it I'm
going to miss this club in particular
you know this gym in particular when I
leave here I think the first thing that
jumps out of me is like this guy knows
himself a little bit you know like uh he
was
mentioning you know his goals being goal
oriented and him understanding that
there's something in there for him to
prove he doesn't look like a guy that's
peacocking or that he's out there to
prove something doesn't look like it but
for him to kind he's like oh I know it's
there yeah I know there's something and
um for him to know it's not about the
money and like these are the guys I want
to know oh why are you fighting and for
him to just let us in that that much
right uh yeah so I I just took from you
know he seems really genuine yeah he's
he's a martial artist like super you
know and there you go there you go he's
a martial artist who also happens to be
a Marine right so which is a double and
then that takes me to something else I
was thinking about
man every Marine Corps Base every army
base every any base is a breeding ground
for MMA soldiers I mean uh athletes if
if they wanted to because you know he
touched on it a bit you only at a base
for about three to four years and then
you get you know so uh which is a long
time though you know he mentioned being
there for three years that's a long time
to him Marines you know it's a little
diff or serviceman in general but um if
someone can actually get into these
bases and and give these guys the
facility that they need and the training
that they need you got some high level
athletes in the military always cycling
through imagine the training that can
get done on on not a lot of dime at all
not a lot of not a lot of money it
should just be a breeding not that MMA
is all that these guys are ever going to
do and they're life all that they can do
but let's face it a lot of servicemen or
alpha male Fighters mean you got Tim
Kennedy and you know Brian Stan why not
give these guys somewhat of an like
direct transfer to to line that they
might want to pursue yeah I I had I
hadn't really thought about that I was
thinking um I was thinking about it just
as just generally overall good for for
for for anyone whether they wanted to
fight or just do a martial art but that
makes I mean that makes complete sense
and and and that's how uh you know you
see that with the college wrestling like
guys are doing this and it's like okay
well that makes sense let me let me make
some money doing something that I
already enjoy if if you if you guys
start out with this and they enjoy and
they want to fight you know um you hear
tons of stories about Sailors and people
getting in fights and this and I mean
it's it's just part of military history
right these guys in Outlet yeah and I
think uh Alexander talks about that the
other guy I don't know if you heard this
interview with Xavier uh 21y old
um aspirations to fight I don't believe
he has but he also has a lot of other
stuff going on but what I was interested
in hearing was uh what wrestling did for
him yeah I gave me a I felt as if it
gave me a purpose I didn't really know
what I wanted to do when I was in high
school I thought you know obviously I
want to go to college and everything
like that but while I was in high school
due to the whole like timid nature and
everything didn't really do anything so
I was like you know stayed to myself but
wrestling that opened up doors to like
made Brothers CU we were all you know
the same going towards a common goal I'm
just trying to be the greatest wrestlers
that we could be and everything so it
just put me in a Brotherhood and I think
that's what I needed or that's what I
was missing in my younger years just
brothers everything it just gave me a
lot of it showed me who I was when I
like cuz wrestling was hard like it was
before Marine Corps obviously it was one
of the hardest things I ever did so it
kind of pushed me and showed me who I
was what what what happens when I get go
through adversity and everything like
that so it really showed me that you
know I'm stronger than I thought I was
I'm also
more open than I thought I was too like
you know I didn't need to be all timid
cuz I was kind of afraid of U you know
just trying to learn what I can trying
to get whatever knowledge just trying to
get I mean the best people here you know
like the coach Rees uh he's just the
best person here so I always go to him
for knowledge and answers just trying to
be a student so I can learn and so I uh
for being here in 29 Palms this horrible
place I I need this there's nothing else
here I finally got a car so I mean now I
can go places but
but MoneyWise it's kind of expensive to
go anywhere so it's like it's nice to be
able to stay here and do this for fun
and this interest me I'm not doing it
cuz I have to I'm doing it cuz I enjoy
it I'm not forcing myself I'm literally
I come here because I just love doing it
I love the people here you know they're
cool everybody's cool everything they're
you know they play around a little bit
but you know they they I know they mean
well and everything it's just just a
good environment and it gets me away
from work and the stress you know of
Marine Corp me stressful sometimes so I
can come here and blow off steam or
whatever it just gives me something and
it's just something I always wanted to
do but in the civilian World it costs
money so the fact that this is free it's
just or given to us I guess cuz you know
I'm in the Marine Corps and it's just I
just find that as a bonus and I'm lucky
to be here cuz I don't think these are
everywhere these little gyms I think uh
so this is you know the other side of
that like where he's know I'm guessing
he probably won't fight maybe he will
but what it's giving him you know what
martial arts is has given him and what
this fight club has given him because
especially at the base he's at and let's
be honest there's only a few gold bases
in the world there's pendlton and
there's a a few in Florida but uh
everyone knows that 29 Palms is [__]
horrible so I would just I will like
gloss over it and just be like you know
29 Palms it's where they filmed The
Hills Have Eyes I mean
it's it's way out there it wasn't a fun
drive to get there these guys don't have
money they don't have most of them don't
have a car uh the imagine living where
you worked living several feet like
having to walk to work and like living
there um so what you know I guess just
tying back to what the gym does
for the average Marine for him not to
fall into other [__] like stress and
you know because there's a bar right
outside town I mean right out [__] we
call the base town but and what's the
percentage of men to women too that live
on Bas like prob ridiculous right yeah
so who El live
there like yeah I wouldn't want to so
yeah after seeing there and just seeing
the drive to get out like dude I'm lazy
I don't want to drive more than 10
minutes from my house there's a reason
it's out there is cuz we're dropping
bombs and and trying [__] out there it's
a wasteland you know um I you can fact
check me but I know that base used to
belong to the to the Army and the Army
deemed it uninhabitable oh really so the
Marine Corps is like oh we'll take it
and then now it's one of the biggest
Marine bases we have so fact checking if
you want but yeah yeah oh I will no
someone else can um so yeah so we have
both of those guys there was another
Fighter um Alexander wetstein 25y old
dude if he most of these guys if they
tell me their age I wouldn't be able to
guess uh and that's part of it is from
being martial artist but the main thing
is because they're marine and they do
years um but you know he he went even
deeper on what
uh the martial arts has given him like
he started at a young age because he had
anger issues at uh I think from
kindergarten from like four years old so
yeah here's Alexander wasn't doing
martial arts I was in a lot of trouble
you know with just physical altercations
and verbal but when I when I when I had
goals in martial arts and I had good
mentors they they kept me I looked I
only looked forward to martial arts
after you know I I in in fact uh I
learned how to do the splits between two
chairs when I was years old because of
Jean CLA vanam I still do it to this day
yes at a high level from the very
beginning I I asked my parents every day
when can I fight like I I I went in
there as a white belt or whatever you
know I just I want to fight and they're
like you know slow up man you need to
learn but that's all I've ever wanted to
do is just fight people I think uh like
the Marine Corps culture is like kill
kill kill kill but the the actual like
the the time and dedication you put into
training and then like how much you
don't get to act and how much you
actually how much time you spend doing
your job job is pretty pretty tough
especially in the Infantry so uh it's
cathartic man really it's like purely
come in here and like um you get to take
out a lot of controlled energy
controlled rage just and uh you can get
in your car and drive home and be like
really happy honestly just feel good
training is a good way to supplement
like not doing Marine Corps stuff you
know and it it definitely helps but like
I definitely think like this is just
it's like a primal thing that I need to
get out and a lot of guys do you know
you see a lot of guys in here Marines
and they just want to they want to Slug
It Out they want to they want to train
hard and they want to get tired from
from fighting um MMA is like fighting in
the Marine Corps U Marines already have
kind of a reputation of going out and
like whooping people's asses for no
reason when they get drunk and stuff
like that so I mean you like you can see
here these these moves are taught
responsibly Marine Corps isn't too
concerned about like how Marines are
fair in hand toand combat anymore
they're more concerned about perception
you know and as sad as that is that's
the truth you look around and the Marine
Corps is a really small small group of
guys that like they're not like the rest
of the country you know maybe back 30
years ago there was a more we shared a
more conservative kind of warrior
mindset I don't mean conservative like
political but just that mindset and and
you here you kind of see like a Bastion
of that now on ring cor bases and uh
people forget about the warrior mindset
like they forget that people you know
aren't hipsters with their hair slick
back drinking coffee like they they need
to remember that there's people like
that are out training to kill every day
and they're people that really are
warriors and and want to [__] kill
people and you'll find them in here you
know these guys seem like they got all
smiles and grins but they're deep down
they're [__] K they're Stone Cold
Killers and and places like these need
to exist for for those people because um
you know as much as people don't want
admit it fighting is a primal thing and
it's it's what people need to get in
touch with that to remember what being a
man is about and uh that's something I
think Society is ignoring a little bit
now I think we'll get back to it but
let's let's pay let's pay heed to these
guys you know that come come in here and
train
[Music]
um yeah so that's that was powerful but
that's dude that's that's the truth I
mean what is what is the your job as a
marine what do you T to do exactly and
someone might watch this who's not a
service member and uh you know he might
come off a little aggressive you might
come off a little aggro uh no but he say
it himself even in the Marine Corps
now like you got to be PC you got to be
you know if you're it's kind of
counterintuitive to train someone to
kill and be at the same time it's it's
just hard so you know he Nails it he
says it man there's some guys in here
who really just want money to go out and
kill people and they're in the right
profession thank God they're not on the
streets and um thank God they have an
outlet but it was awesome you know we
got to sit down with the head coach Mark
GCO and here he is Marine Corps at the
time had a lot of boxing they had
Battalion level regimental lever I was
in Japan island level Pacific everything
like like that so there was a lot of
boxing we don't really have that now but
this was back in the 80s so you know the
Marine Corps was Rife with that and then
you know being in the Far East there was
other striking sports that interested me
that I got into and then I finally
settled on Muay Thai after a while
because I really liked it so and the
thing about Marine Corps there's always
somebody to play with there's always
somebody to you know spar with to train
with and so you know that's why I stayed
for 27 years thanks aw so enjoyed that
and then after after fighting mu Thai
for a while got injured tore my shoulder
needed surgery and I transitioned into
coaching I try to give them some of the
experience I had with all my fights and
and my my time fighting in different uh
associations and different disciplines
and hopefully I give them that little
bit of wisdom you know small bit that
I've got to pass on to them but it's
really they're probably giving me more
than I give them because I get the
self-fulfillment of being around these
young people I'm not really crazy about
people my age I like I like being around
young people you know my kids are in
college now so they're not home as much
I don't see them as much so these kind
of are my surrogate children now you
know so do you see the do you see that
the martial arts is actually giving them
absolutely absolutely I've I've got I
have Marines walk in there off the
street with really no martial arts
background other than maybe high school
wrestling or being a high school athlete
like a football player or something and
just wander in here couple guys wandered
in here tonight for the first time you
know started boxing or started rolling
with you guys and they'll they'll catch
the bug and they'll go and go and you
know you'll see and they'll turn out
like cat and Tommy where they get three
four five six fights you know I've got a
kid fighting in the UFC this week that
started with me he's fighting in Korea
on Saturday so he's come from being a
high school wrestler and starting
training with us in 2008 to fighting the
co-main event in the UFC so you know
we're not taking credit for that but we
gave him his start now how much how much
do you think this helps guys with stress
I mean I'm assuming there's I mean
there's got to be tons and tons of
stress it seems like it' be a great way
so yeah know talk a little bit about
that it's invaluable you know it's
invaluable that Marines and we have a
lot of combat Marines with multiple
combat tours not so many in here but we
have a handful like myself that this is
a stress relief you know it's it's a way
to battle maybe some of the demons that
some folks may have and be around
like-minded people and you know being a
martial artist yourself it's a stress
relief just the energy that comes
through here and at the end of the day
you spent yourself I even get tired just
and I'm spent right now from just
running my mouth for 2 hours you know
but it's you go home and you put your
head on the pillow at night and it's
like you you've emptied the tank you
know so these guys they get a lot from
it and the camaraderie of it as you know
you know being around not only Marines
but martial artists that are Marines so
yeah it's very invaluable it's getting
more and more acceptable when we first
started the team in 2005 um I was a
senior enlisted guy I was still in
active duty so I could kind of throw my
weight around behind the team but we've
run into higher ups Colonels sergeants
Majors that don't care for this type of
stuff they're afraid Marines are going
to get hurt and believe it or not more
Marines get hurt playing basketball than
they do rolling Jiu-Jitsu or sparring mu
Tha or whatever so I would say about 85%
to 90% of the leadership is is on board
you know they come to the fights they
come to the tournaments they back their
Marines very it's few and far between
now because MMA has become more accepted
now over the past 10 years it's become
more mainstream as you know everybody
knows the UFC now back in 2005 when we
started this it was like oh what are you
guys fighting in a parking garage
somewhere they thought it was a vanam
movie are you fighting an empty swimming
pool somewhere you know or something
like that but now it's more mainstream
everybody knows Dana White and Ronda
Rousey and Jon Jones and so on and so
forth like that so they're like oh okay
great and it's a place I mean you see we
had 20 some guys in here tonight so
they're not sitting in a room playing
Xbox they're not drinking they're not
out running in the vill you know they're
they're training and when they're done
here they're probably going to bed cuz
they pretty much emptied the tank here
tonight you know they eat and they go to
bed and they go you know go to work
tomorrow so it's good now I'm just
blessed to be able to do this um my big
thing as as these guys know is to never
have these guys pay for anything so we
have a free training facility by the
grace of the Marine Corps I've managed
to engage money through sponsors and uh
fundraising events to where our guys go
to tournaments and we can pay for it the
team nothing comes out of pocket you
know like Reese and C competed this
weekend that came out of the team fund
they didn't have to pay the $80 or
whatever when we do have MMA fights we
make money off the ticket sales so that
comes back into the coughers um we've
got some clothing sponsorship that we
can outfit these guys and fight shorts
and rash guards so that's my big thing
that never have any of these guys that
don't make a lot of money even the staff
n and officers still don't make a lot of
money pay for anything they got a free
place to train cuz I have a lot of guys
that leave the team either go to the
civilian world or another base and have
to pay to train they come to a place
like where you are and they have to pay
or um you know they go to civilian war
and they have to pay for a gym to train
strength and to train martial arts and
they they call me back they're like
coach it cost me $85 a month to train
and I said yeah you guys didn't know how
good how hard we work to keep this free
here you know so we're blessed you know
to have have these kids and they keep me
young you know they're fun to be around
you know and and uh we're just blessed
we're blessed to have each other you
know they they think I do a lot for them
but they don't realize how much they do
for me too so yeah it's good okay what I
want to say really quick is right so
we've heard we got to see a little bit a
little look at this place and what it's
given these individuals this is a small
sampling like how many guys were there
that maybe 30 or so or more I would
almost gu well I would bet that all of
them are getting something valuable from
it it's helping them that's why they're
there that's why they're working out um
you know so I think that's yeah yeah it
should be there it is valuable uh they
don't have funding right so they don't
and not the funding they deserve so you
know I'm not quite sure how it works but
all I know is what they what these guys
do do is like they're basically like a
high school football basketball team
they they they they do car washes they
do fundraisers they um they go on Hikes
and they do all these you know and
that's how they raise their money so
they're out there not only training but
they're out there hustling and doing
fundraisers and and and and charity
events and stuff like that to raise
money so um
I mean I've been in the service I know
the money's there to just you know kind
of help these guys and hopefully like he
said you know hopefully the higher brass
and and some of the colonels and
Generals will kind of start to really
back some of these small small
operations like you know like you got
going on over at 29 yeah and if they
aren't I mean that's awesome that
they're being that they have what they
have um but if you want to help them uh
people can reach out to them sponsor
them uh whether it's the gym or Fighters
yeah doesn't hurt to have your uh your
logo on the back of uh fighter shorts
everyone love servicemen right um but
yeah so I think all right so let's go to
um okay how beneficial it is to them
what do you you touched on earlier but
what do you think it would have done for
you uh if you're active duty would it
have been good to be able to have that
yeah of course I mean uh I was lucky
actually you know I enjoyed playing
basketball and uh lifting weights seemed
to be enough for me and was never too
big of a drinker but I was the outlier
the majority of Marines you know it's
just about drinking fighting or and I
want say Marines in general majority of
teenage men who are in the service let's
say that uh so yeah if I would have had
this and um you know I mentioned one of
my buddies earlier passed away if we
could have both just went to the gym and
rolled and you know maybe he didn't like
baseball football or basketball but
maybe he wouldn't like to choke people
or or or hit a punching bag or have
someone hit mids for him um that would
have been huge and you know he said they
started somewhere in 2005 I was in the
core uh but just the popularity like no
one knew about it they weren't like it
wasn't that's that's what I was waning
earlier I was like no they were there
they were there obviously but they
weren't in that building they were
somewhere else he had mentioned uh they
were probably smaller and they were
probably only for like actual members of
the base when I was there I was a
student so uh you know but if if I would
have known I know I would have been in
there yeah I I I know it for sure so um
yeah it's huge especially on that base
one thing I didn't ask him uh but and we
talked a little bit about it at the
arena the arena MMA and San Diego
because they trained who was it they do
training for some of the seal yeah they
actually do train for some of the seals
and help them you know with some more
hand to hand type combat situation stuff
yeah and because and I asked them too
like okay what level are these guys uh
what what level is the average um
Soldier the soldier apply only to Army
or is that yeah but in general people
like to say soldiers far across but yeah
army soldiers Marines are troops are
let's say the the the average person uh
getting out of boot camp or the
equivalent where are their where is
their uh hand to hand combat I say a
white belt all the way around see and
that's terrible why would you want that
like maybe maybe that's not a big part
of battle maybe so maybe it's not
important anymore maybe everything's
done from a distance but just having
that confidence as a person like what
that would that does for not needing to
fight anyone else cuz you know you could
do not only have you exerted all this
energy but you know you can destroy this
dude you're not even like I wouldn't do
that um I think it'll if you know how to
fight with your hands it's easier and
you're more calm when it comes to
pulling a trigger because uh if if
pulling a trigger is your only
self-defense or your only means of
Defense dude sometime I just I don't
know I think if you especially like you
know this might be off topic but cops
like it if you can't subdue a person by
with your hands you shouldn't allow you
should you shouldn't be allowed to have
a gun it's just if you can't stop a man
now I'm not saying weight difference but
if you're not confident with your body
how am I going to trust you be confident
with the weapon right um but uh going
back to marines that was a weird tangent
no um it's true helping Marines what
saying uh I lost it um about about about
having that if if you were to improve I
think you would improve overall
confidence um and just make them into
better athletes better soldiers better
Marines better and and the big thing is
um you know emptying their gas tank yeah
this is a stressful job like even if
you're you know if you're a cook if
you're a supply if you're it doesn't
matter you get yell you get yelled at
and you're a grown man dude I I couldn't
do it you know it's it's stressful um so
for you to just be able to just go hit a
bag you know maybe you're not even just
to hit a bag to physically and people
might oh you're you're you're you're
feeding to your anger you're feeding to
your aggression I it's just you got to
let off steam and it's as simple as that
men or men women or women testosterone
stress and not to mention you know 29
Palms the man to women ratio is
extremely crazy and then you add in rank
structure who you can and can fraize
with it becomes it's so you got all
these youngsters just in a desert
boiling not oh that's where they filmed
The Hills Have Eyes oh yeah so they're
way up there they're way out there and
you know I know we're talking about 29
Pals right now but in general there's a
lot of other bases in you know out there
areas maybe shitty areas and uh dude
these guys just need a [__] Outlet
yeah that's that's just it's just that
simple it it all ties back down to that
no that's cool
yeah so it's been a while since we've
been out there uh glad that they're
doing well it's awesome how good uh like
Reese is competing like crazy and yeah
look him up he's going to come down here
and train I asked him to show us some
leg locks um yeah I guess he's been he's
been tearing it up he's been tearing it
up uh leglock actual at on Instagram if
you want to find him staff sergeant of
Marines and he's the uh Jiu-Jitsu coach
at fight club 29 uh and one of my good
buddies also at uh temp Riverside we TR
together so yeah that's awesome so he'll
be coming down here um yeah we'll go a
little bit deeper into this at the end
of every episode um I play one of my
short stories yeah uh trying to figure
out which one would be best for this
time sometimes we talk about family
stuff and I try not to I use my
daughter's book um this one I was like
okay what do I have that's military
related I have to feed an army uh I like
that was one of my early short stories
that I sold um but that's in repackaged
presents only on Audible because I
didn't understand I wasn't really
thinking about it uh but with audible if
you sign up for if you make your book
exclusive with them then you can't use
it anywhere else you get a higher
percentage back but I don't like that I
want to be able to put my stuff out for
free uh that's right yeah and share it
on here so I was like okay another story
um and actually I asked you what you
thought and I was like well it's
probably got to be a little bit darker
right I mean we're talking about Marines
we're talking about death that's what
you guys in military I mean yeah that's
what it is um I've always been OB
obsessed with death uh that's what a big
reason I write about it is because it
probably scares me and everything else
this is my way of dealing with it um
short story I picked is from Twisted
reunion the audio book that it's in is
each Don I die it's a it was a bonus
story um in this 12 Story collection but
it's awesome it's a good book yeah it's
a good book Maybe This D will read it
maybe you know you know what maybe if uh
maybe if this dude actually read my
stuff then he could he could introduce
it he could talk about oh no is it is
awesome you should believe in you
reading let me off at the top by Ron
Burgundy okay okay that's a comedy book
right now I got I got I got a I need a
substitute you need the balance you need
the balance dude balance is huge dude
that's that's uh if I read all your [__]
all the time I don't know yeah no I go
to I go to my my daughter's school and I
I drop off my books and I just tell him
like I'm still this dude that has Jake
in the backseat and saying have a great
day you know I still the good dad I
still I was like I got this side of this
nice peaceful place and I got the dark
side and and and I think I think
sometimes we're ashamed dude we had a
great talk last night about everything
yeah um and I think sometimes we're
ashamed of that side of us but no it's
there it is there so check it out shades
of death uh see what sides you see of
yourself I think I think definitely a
little bit of maybe a little bit of
fear good
shades of
death I wake the concrete Cold against
my
cheek everything's black I can't see my
hand even though my palm is touching the
tip of my
nose I have no idea how I got here I
don't even know where here
is I'm indoors that much I'm
sure I remember being at home falling
asleep on the couch
somebody must have grabbed me maybe the
feds but I don't think so this isn't a
cell I smell something cooking maybe
chicken someone says something in
Spanish Julio must have found out I
can't ever pay him
back seems like my head would be sore
from a knock on the head or I'd be
groggy from being drugged but I can
think
fine I just can't
see I whisper
hello my voice bounces right
back there has to be a wall pretty
close I whisper again to the right and
then straight up each time the same
Echo no wind just my voice and the one
in
Spanish it's a guy he's laughing
now or maybe he's screaming
and my eyes start to adjust it's not
completely dark on the wall in front of
me there are the outlines of two large
rectangles it looks like someone carved
through the wall with the thinnest laser
so just a hint of sunlight could tease
me I get to my knees I'm not tied
up I stand and take a step to the left
the tiles cool against my fingers and a
bit damp I stick out my arm I wave it
back and forth as I inch towards the
smaller
rectangle there's no sound other than my
shuffling feet now no laughter no
Spanish just my hurried breath I'm so
close I'm close enough to see the
rectangle a window with the drawn
shade the Fabric's disgusting and sticky
and I imagine a web of a giant spider
whose feet are silently scurrying across
the ceiling I know there aren't giant
spiders that prey on people but my mind
prefers to think of eight-legged death
than whatever is on the other side of
the
wall as far as the explanation for how I
got here I'm guessing it's pretty
bad if it really is Julio I'm
[__] I need to know where I am so I
tug and release the shade and a bright
fluorescent light from another room
blinds me I assumed I'd see a street
light or some trees somewhere to escape
it takes a moment for my eyes to adjust
to the harsh light
the other room is larger there's no
furniture there's just a naked Hispanic
man cowering in the corner his belly
round and legs so spindly it looks like
he might
collapse no sound carries through the
window so I can't hear his panicked
yells as he waves his hand at the two
snarling pitbulls in the corner of the
room the dogs bear their teeth snap at
the man there's a speaker above them the
second I see it The Savage barking comes
blaring into my
ears it's coming from behind me another
speaker in my
room I turn back to the window the blue
brindle drips bloody saliva onto the
tiled floor next to a stringy piece of
raw meat the man moves in my direction
and I see where that morsel came from
he's missing a large chunk of his right
thigh the white bone glistens under a
layer of shredded tendons and
muscle
the man spots me he's screaming in
Spanish the black pit leaps clamps its
jaw shut on the man's left hand it tears
through the index and middle fingers
gulps them down like a tasty treat the
man tries to run pushes off with his
injured leg slips on the Slick tiles and
hits the ground the pit attacks but the
man kicks out with his Good Foot Nails
the dog Square on its
nose the other pit snaps at the man's
mangled hand but he draws it back just
in time punches the Pit's massive head
both dogs are stunned and the man's back
on his feet hobbling toward me he waves
me away his mouth's open but I can no
longer hear his screams someone's
controlling the
speakers he's reaching to the left of
the window towards an outline of the
larger
rectangle it has to be a door but I
don't feel a
handle still I brace myself against the
rectangle sorry but I can't let in the
dogs his contorted sweating face is
staring back at me I can't look at him
on the back wall behind him are two
windows black shades drawn in the middle
of both there's a door with a shiny
silver knob I point to it but he doesn't
seem to comprehend the dogs are back
after
him the black pit flies through the air
turns its enormous head to the side
Chomps down on the man's right hamstring
the other latches on his arm thrashes
back and forth the man keeps his eyes on
mine his jaw set and his brow furrowed
as he drags the dogs toward the
glass The Black Pit loses its grip then
charges and bites down on the man's
Achilles snapping it in
half somehow the guy keeps coming bent
over like an old man dragging a ball in
chain a chunk of meat tears free from
his leg and he stumbles forward his
forehead slams into the middle of the
window I feel the faint vibration but I
still can't hear anything his tortured
face slides down the glass leaving a
trail of sweat and blood he disappears
below the window the door
shakes I move back put everything I've
got into blocking it feeling like a
coward I yank down the shade and throw
myself back into
darkness I slide down the door and
scream stop shaking
I've never been so
scared I tell myself the dogs aren't
getting through that window I tell
myself the man's suffering is
over I wait for a minute
two I'm sitting on a damp spot is it
sweat piss I slide my finger along the
floor I can't see it doesn't smell like
urine I [__] hate dogs
I got bit when I was three and I still
remember it like it was
yesterday I can't stay in here and wait
for whatever this [__] is planning am
I next this isn't Julio doing this he's
[__] up but not like
this I've got to get out of here why
didn't I think to look around this room
while it was lit I could have planned
something instead I'm sitting here with
like a scared kid without a nightlight
not about to open that shade above my
head I'm not daring those dogs to attack
I get up drag my hand along the wall I
hope I'll find a knob button something
finally I find another
shade I don't believe in God but I'm
praying as I Yank on the
shade the room's identical to the dog
room it has the same two windows at the
back each with the same black shade
drawn and the same shiny door knob but
this time there's an athletic 20s
something lying on his stomach in the
right
corner he's naked besides a silver
necklace his face buried behind the
crook of his muscular arm there aren't
any
dogs I knock on the glass hoping the guy
can help he doesn't stir I back up and
throw my weight against it he still
doesn't move so I do so again and
something pops in my shoulder as I
bounce off the window he Twitches come
on come on you big [__] get up the man
moves his arm uncovers his face the
entire left side flush against the
floor he opens his eyes and stares at me
I wave him over come on with the sight
of his face still against the floor the
guy places both Palms on the ground and
pushes it looks like he's doing some
kind of push-up where he keeps his head
close to the ground his neck strains and
the skin on his cheek
pulls half an inch an inch the skin
continues to
stretch he jerks his head
and the skin tears a large patch stuck
to the floor the rest dangling from the
side of his
face as he gets to his feet and staggers
over I see his entire body is blistered
rivers of sweat running between the
bubbles the crucifix hanging from its
silver chain glows bright over the man's
chest a crazed deranged look fills his
wide eyes two more lurching steps and he
falls to a knee patches of skin are
missing from his forearm and thighs
steam rises from his head he says
something I can't
hear I point to the wall try the
door he shakes his head the crucifix
burns brighter the steam Rising off his
head
thickens my room is still cold and damp
even the glass is
cool he keeps coming for me waving me
away from the window his feet leave
patches of Flesh with each
step I spin away the light from the
furnace room illuminates the walls
there's the shiny knob I can't see the
door only the knob I grab it and twist
it but it only spins in my hand it's
hard to see in the shadows but I can't
make out any cracks in the walls no sign
of a
door I turn as the light dims the
blistered man's steaming silhouette
fills most of the window blocking out
the fluorescent
lights I feel like an ass but I wave him
away and turn my back on him he stays
there for another second and then falls
to his knees the light in his room
flickers
out my hearts racing what the [__]
happening someone turned off those
lights when would my light go on what's
going to happen when it
does maybe I'm just here to watch but
I'm pretty certain that I'm not just a
witness I keep feeling the wall but
there's no other door there has to be an
entrance here I got in here
somehow was was it through the one with
the
dogs I reach the corner and suddenly
hear water I keep moving my foot
splashes I keep moving the water hits my
ankles I keep moving I'm back at the
first window when the water reaches my
shins I drop to my hands and knees and
feel along the tile there's a current
it's coming from close by I find the
grate where the water's coming from it's
being Pumped Up From Below I place my
ass over it but it's not enough not even
with my Palms helping to block the
water's at my chest now I have to cover
the vent I strip off my shirt and W it
up and place it over the grate but I
still feel the water pulsing through my
pants are off next even though I'm sure
they're useless I'm naked and I think of
the men in the other rooms were they
forced to strip themselves just like
me the water's Rising fast it's at my
neck I have a minute or two before the
room will be flooded I paddle with my
arms push the water out of my way the
[__] do you want I keep asking that but
there's no answer I'll give you anything
whatever you think I've done I'll make
it up to you I
swear the water touches my chin but I
continue moving the bright outline of a
rectangle blinks to life in the middle
of the back wall it's the lower third
shimmering under the water I start
swimming I'm a few yards from the wall
when I surface and take take a deep
breath the water doesn't seem to be
rising but there's a hissing sound and
the pungent smell of chlorine sweeps
over me I write it off as chemically
treated water take one more breath the
metallic taste of pepper and pineapple
stings the back of my throat my scalp
and face start to burn I lower my head
close to the water shut my eyes my face
no longer Burns but the back of my neck
does I've seen enough of the History
Channel to know what chlorine gas can
do my feet can't touch the floor any
longer I just
float the waters stopped at the top of
what looks like another window I plunge
my hand to pull the shade but there's
nothing there only slick unbreakable
glass I surface to breathe and
Everything Burns plunging deeper I feel
relief the shade shoots up the other
side of the glass and a woman someone
I've never seen stares at me she's still
clothed it's just starting for
her I scream for her to help and I point
to the glass tell her to get something
to break it but she backs
away my ears are ringing I try to float
to the surface but the water's at the
ceiling I keep my eyes locked on the
woman's she only takes another step back
from the window and I don't blame her
maybe I'm her first
window maybe she'll find a way
[Music]
[Applause]
out